---
layout: post
title: "A Roundabout Modification to Dixmier's Classification of UHF Algebras"
date: 2025-09-11 00:00:00 -0700
author: Freeman Cheng
tags: ["math"]
abstract: |
    WIP: I converted .tex to this web format with a LLM, so there may be errors.

    This report was written for <a href="https://artsci.calendar.utoronto.ca/course/mat437h1">course</a> on K-Theory and $C^*$ Algebras taught by Prof. <a href="https://www.mathematics.utoronto.ca/people/directories/all-faculty/george-elliott">George Elliott</a> in 2023, produced after many hints from Prof. Elliott.

    The following is a roundabout modification of Dixmier's classification of UHF algebras that arose from an attempt to reconstruct Dixmier's approach.
    We Frankenstein together two appraoches.
    We begin with the inductive limit definition of UHF algebras [rørdam_larsen_laustsen_2010](#ref-rørdam_larsen_laustsen_2010) and equate it with Dixmier's definition of Matroid separable $C^\star$-algebras with unit [dixmier_1967](#ref-dixmier_1967).
    We then develop, as Dixmier did, the notion of dimension for UHF algebras represented by supernatural numbers.
    To wrap up the classification, we use Elliott's intertwining argument [rørdam_larsen_laustsen_2010](#ref-rørdam_larsen_laustsen_2010) to conclude two UHF algebras are isomorphic if and only if their dimensions are equal.
    Why we do not follow Dixmier's approach till the end, I do not know.

    TBH this one was a bit pointless...
---
## UHF algebras

This section simply aims to explain what UHF algebras are.

### Definitions

We give two equivalent definitions of UHF (uniformly hyperfinite) algebras.

**Definition (Definition 7.4 in [rørdam_larsen_laustsen_2010](#ref-rørdam_larsen_laustsen_2010)). <a id="inductive limit definition of UHF algebras"></a>**
A UHF algebra is the inductive limit of the sequence
https://q.uiver.app/?q=WzAsNCxbMCwwLCJNX3txXzF9KFxcbWF0aGJie0N9KSJdLFsyLDAsIk1fe3FfMn0oXFxtYXRoYmJ7Q30pIl0sWzQsMCwiTV97cV8zfShcXG1hdGhiYntDfSkiXSxbNiwwLCJcXGNkb3RzIl0sWzEsMiwiXFx2YXJwaGlfMiJdLFsyLDMsIlxcdmFycGhpXzMiXSxbMCwxLCJcXHZhcnBoaV8xIl1d
where $q_i$ are positive integers and $\varphi_i$ are unital.

**Remark. <a id="excuse to omit details"></a>**
We present the next definition purely for historical accuracy--it is the definition Dixmier uses.
Diximer, in [dixmier_1967](#ref-dixmier_1967), classifies all separable matroid algebras, not just ones with unit.
If we only care about classifying UHF algebras, this definition is quite roundabout.
Therefore, we will simply refer the upcoming Theorem <a href="#equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 2">equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 2</a> as the second definition.

**Definition (Definition 1.1 in [dixmier_1967](#ref-dixmier_1967)).**
Let $A$ be a $C^\star$-algebra.
$A$ is called **matroid** if given any $x_1, ..., x_n\in A$ and $\epsilon > 0,$ there exist a $C^\star$-sub-algebra $B$ of $A$ isomorphic to $M_r(\mathbb{C})$ for some $r$ such that $d(x_i, B)\le \epsilon$ for $i = 1, ..., n.$
Call a $C^\star$-algebra **UHF** if it is a seprable matroid algebra with unit.

### Equivalence of Definitions

We will show that these two characterizations of UHF algebras are equivalent. First, a couple propositions.

**Proposition. <a id="n|n'"></a>**
There exist a unital $\star$-homomorphism $\varphi: M_n(\mathbb{C})\rightarrow M_{n'}(\mathbb{C})$ if and only if $n|n'.$
If it exists, $\varphi$ is unique up to isomorphism.

**Proof.**
Take $\varphi: M_n(\mathbb{C})\rightarrow M_{n'}(\mathbb{C})$ to be a unital $\star$-homomorphism.
Let $\{e_{i, j}\}$ be a family of matrix units for $M_n(\mathbb{C}).$
Since $\varphi(e_{1, 1}) = \varphi(e_{i, 1})^\star \varphi(e_{i, 1})$ and $\varphi(e_{i, i}) = \varphi(e_{i, 1})\varphi(e_{i, 1})^\star ,$ we have that $\varphi(e_{i, i})\sim \varphi(e_{j, j})$ for all $i, j.$
Note that two projections in $M_n(\mathbb{C})$ are Murray-von Neumann equivalent if and only if their ranges share the same dimension.
Therefore, $\mathbb{C}^{n'} = \bigoplus_{i = 1}^n \range \varphi(e_{i, i})$ because $\varphi(e_{1, 1}), ..., \varphi(e_{n, n})$ are mutually orthogonal projections that sum to the identity.
This, of course, means that $n|n'.$
Existence when $n|n'$ is easy to show: consider the map $A\mapsto A\otimes I_{n'/n}$ where $\otimes$ here is the Kronecker product.
To show that given any other unital $\star$-homomorphism $\psi: M_n(\mathbb{C})\rightarrow M_{n'}(\mathbb{C}),$ we have $\psi = \gamma\circ \varphi$ for some isomorphism on the ranges $\gamma,$ it's sufficient to prove $\varphi$ is injective.
Suppose, for the sake of contradiction, $\varphi(e_{i, j}) = \varphi(e_{x, y}).$
This means that $\varphi(e_{i, i}) = \varphi(e_{x, x}),$ contradiction. ∎

**Lemma. <a id="cutdown decomposition"></a>**
Let $1\in A$ be a unital $C^\star$ algebra and $p\in A$ be a projection.
The $\star$-homomorphism $\varphi: (1 - p)A(1 - p)\oplus pAp\longrightarrow A$ given by $(x, y)\longmapsto x + y$ is injective and hence an isometry.

**Proof.**
Let $a, b\in A$ be elements where $(1 - p)a(1 - p)\neq 0$ and $pbp\neq 0.$
Since $p\varphi(((1 - p)a(1 - p), pbp)) = p((1 - p)a(1 - p) + pbp) = pbp\neq 0,$ $\varphi$ must be injective. ∎

**Proposition (1.2 in [dixmier_1967](#ref-dixmier_1967)). <a id="unit of matroid algebra is consistent"></a>**
Let $1\in A$ be a unital matroid $C^\star$-algbera.
Then given any $x_1, ..., x_n\in A$ and $\epsilon > 0,$ there exist a $C^\star$-sub-algebra $B$ of $A$ isomorphic to $M_r(\mathbb{C})$ for some $r$ such that $1\in B$ and $d(x_i, B)\le \epsilon$ for $i = 1, ..., n.$

**Proof.**
Because $A$ is matroid, there exist a $C^\star$-sub-algebra $B$ of $A$ isomorphic to $M_r(\mathbb{C})$ for some $r$ such that $d(x_i, b)\le \epsilon$ for $i = 1, ..., n$ and $d(1, B)\le \epsilon$ (where $1_B$ is the unit of $B$).
Suppose, for the sake of contradiction, $1\neq 1_B.$
Then, $1 - 1_B$ is a projection, so $||1 - 1_B|| = 1.$
Note, however, that given any $b\in A,$ we have
<div class="math-display">
$$
\begin{aligned}
    ||1 - x|| &= ||(1 - 1_B) + (1_B - x)|| \\
    &= \max(||1 - 1_B||, ||1_B - x||) \\
    &\ge 1,
\end{aligned}
$$
</div>
(by Lemma <a href="#cutdown decomposition">cutdown decomposition</a>), which is a contradiction (take $\epsilon < 1$). ∎

The following Lemma reveals our hand on how we are to show equivalence.

**Lemma (Exercise 6.2 in [rørdam_larsen_laustsen_2010](#ref-rørdam_larsen_laustsen_2010)). <a id="equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 1"></a>**
Let $D$ be a $C^\star$-algebra and 
$$\{A_i\}_{i = 1}^\infty$$
be an increasing sequence of $C^\star$-sub-algebras of $D.$
Put
$$A = \overline{\bigcup_{i = 1}^\infty A_i}$$
and take $\iota_i: A_i\rightarrow A$ to be the inclusion maps.
Then, $(A, \{\iota_i\}_{i = 1}^\infty)$ is the inductive limit of the sequence
https://q.uiver.app/?q=WzAsNSxbMCwwLCJBXzEiXSxbMiwwLCJBXzIiXSxbNCwwLCJBXzMiXSxbNiwwLCJcXGNkb3RzIl0sWzgsMCwiQSJdLFsxLDIsIlxcaW90YV8yIl0sWzIsMywiXFxpb3RhXzMiXSxbMCwxLCJcXGlvdGFfMSJdLFszLDRdXQ==

**Theorem (Theorem 1.6 in [dixmier_1967](#ref-dixmier_1967)). <a id="equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 2"></a>**
$A$ is a matroid separable $C^\star$-algebra with unit if and only if there exist a sequence $q_1, q_2$ of positive integers and an increasing sequence $A_1, A_2, ...$ of $C^\star$-subalgebras of $A,$ sharing the same unit with $A,$ where $A_i\cong M_{q_i}(\mathbb{C})$ and
$$  A = \overline{\bigcup_{i = 1}^\infty A_i}$$.

**Proof.**
A clever application of Proposition <a href="#unit of matroid algebra is consistent">unit of matroid algebra is consistent</a>. We omit the details because of Remark <a href="#excuse to omit details">excuse to omit details</a>. ∎

**Corollary.**
By Lemma <a href="#equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 1">equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 1</a> and Theorem <a href="#equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 2">equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 2</a>, the two definitions are equivalent.

## Dimension

**Theorem. <a id="unique trace theorem"></a>**
Let $A$ be a UHF algebra. Then there exists on $A$ a unique trace $\tau$ with $||\tau|| = 1.$ This trace is faithful.

**Proof.**
Let's first show uniqueness. Let $\tau$ be a trace on $A$ satisfying $||\tau|| = 1.$ Theorem <a href="#equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 2">equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 2</a> tells us that there is an increasing sequence $A_1, A_2, ...$ of $C^\star$-subalgebras of $A,$ $1\in A_i$ for $i\in \mathbb{N},$ $A_i\cong M_{q_i}(\mathbb{C})$ for some $q_i\in \mathbb{N},$ such that
$$    A = \overline{\bigcup_{i = 1}^\infty A_i}.$$
Therefore, $\tau,$ being continuous, is uniquely determined by its restrictions on $A_i$ for $i\in \mathbb{N}.$ Each such restriction yields a trace on $M_{q_i}(\mathbb{C})$ that takes the identity matrix to $\tau(1).$ Traces are unique on finite matrix algebras up to multiplication of a scalar, so $\tau$ is uniquely determined.

Existence is easy by explicit construction: Proposition <a href="#n|n'">n|n'</a> and Theorem <a href="#equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 2">equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 2</a> give us the following representation. There exist positive integers $f_1, f_2, ...$ such that
$$    q_n = \prod_{k = 1}^n f_k$$
and there exist isomorphisms $\pi_n: A_n\rightarrow \bigotimes_{k = 1}^n M_{f_k}(\mathbb{C})$ making the following diagram commute:
https://q.uiver.app/?q=WzAsNCxbMCwwLCJBX24iXSxbMiwwLCJBX3tuICsgMX0iXSxbMCwyLCJcXGJpZ290aW1lc197ayA9IDF9Xm4gTV97Zl9rfShcXG1hdGhiYntDfSkiXSxbMiwyLCJcXGJpZ290aW1lc197ayA9IDF9XntuICsgMX0gTV97Zl9rfShcXG1hdGhiYntDfSkiXSxbMCwxLCJcXGlvdGFfbiJdLFsyLDMsIlxcdmFycGhpX24iXSxbMCwyLCJcXHBpX24iLDEseyJzdHlsZSI6eyJ0YWlsIjp7Im5hbWUiOiJhcnJvd2hlYWQifX19XSxbMSwzLCJcXHBpX3tuICsgMX0iLDEseyJzdHlsZSI6eyJ0YWlsIjp7Im5hbWUiOiJhcnJvd2hlYWQifX19XV0=
where $\varphi_n$ takes 
$$x\mapsto x\otimes 1_{f_{n + 1}}.$$
We can then construct a trace $\tau_n: A_n\rightarrow \mathbb{C}$ where $\tau(x) = \Tr(\pi_n(x))$ where $\Tr$ is the normalized trace (norm is $1$, i.e., $\Tr$ takes identity matrix to $1$). Note that $\tau_{n + 1}$ restricted to $A_n$ is $\tau_n.$ We can therefore define a trace $\tau$ with $||\tau|| = 1$ on $\bigcup_{i = 1}^\infty A_i$ and by density, $A$ as required. We delegate the proof of faithfulness to the Appendix. Faithfulness is a result of Proposition <a href="#UHF is simple">UHF is simple</a> and Corollary <a href="#non-zero trace of simple is faithful">non-zero trace of simple is faithful</a>. ∎

**Remark.**
We can therefore think of UHF algebras as the infinite tensor products of matrix algebras.

**Definition (Definition 2.7 in [dixmier_1967](#ref-dixmier_1967)).**
Let $A$ be a UHF algebra. Call the (normalized) **dimension map** on $A$ the restriction of the unique trace of norm $1$ on $A$ to $P(A).$

Let's explore some properties of the dimension map. First, some Lemmas.

**Lemma (Lemma 2.2.3 in [rørdam_larsen_laustsen_2010](#ref-rørdam_larsen_laustsen_2010)). <a id="spectrum of self-adjoint when close to projection"></a>**
Let $A$ be a $C^\star$-algebra, $p\in A$ a projection, and $a\in A$ satisfying $a^\star = a.$ Take $\delta = ||p - a||.$ Then, $\sigma(a)\subseteq [-\delta, \delta]\cup [1 - \delta, 1 + \delta].$

**Lemma (Proposition 2.2.4 in [rørdam_larsen_laustsen_2010](#ref-rørdam_larsen_laustsen_2010)). <a id="closeness implies sim"></a>**
Let $A$ be a $C^\star$-algebra, $p, q\in A$ be projections. If $||p - q|| < 1,$ then $p\sim_h q.$

**Lemma (Lemma 2.2 in [dixmier_1967](#ref-dixmier_1967)). <a id="closeness lemma"></a>**
Let $A$ be a $C^\star$-algebra, $B$ a $C^\star$-sub-algebra of $A,$ and $p\in A$ a projection. For all $\epsilon > 0,$ there is $\delta > 0$ such that if $||p - b|| < \delta$ for some $b\in B,$ there is a projection $q\in B$ where $||p - q|| < \epsilon.$

**Remark.**
Dixmier, in [dixmier_1967](#ref-dixmier_1967), defers to Lemmas 1.6 and 1.8 in [glimm_1960](#ref-glimm_1960) for proof. In particular, the proof of 1.6 in [glimm_1960](#ref-glimm_1960) contains a nice calculation to obtain a weaker result of Lemma <a href="#spectrum of self-adjoint when close to projection">spectrum of self-adjoint when close to projection</a> by bounding $||a^2 - a||.$

**Proof.**
Suppose $||p - b|| < \delta$ for some $b\in B.$ We may decompose $b = x + iy,$ where $x$ and $y$ are self-adjoint. Since $2\delta = ||x + iy - p|| + ||x - iy - p||\ge 2||x - p||,$ we can assume without loss of generality that $b = b^\star .$ Lemma <a href="#spectrum of self-adjoint when close to projection">spectrum of self-adjoint when close to projection</a> gives us that $\sigma(b)\subseteq [-\delta, \delta]\cup [1 - \delta, 1 + \delta].$ We can take $\delta$ to be sufficiently small such that $[-\delta, \delta]\cap [1 - \delta, 1 + \delta] = \emptyset.$ Then, letting $f$ to be the indicator function on $[1 - \delta, 1 + \delta],$ the spectral mapping theorem gives a projection $f(b)\in B.$ And because $||p - f(b)||\le ||p - b|| + ||b - f(b)||\le \delta + \delta,$ again by the spectral mapping theorem (take $g(x) = 1 - f(x)$ to get $||b - f(b)||\le \delta$), we are done. ∎

**Proposition (Properties of dimension map; 2.8 - 2.10 in [dixmier_1967](#ref-dixmier_1967)). <a id="properties of dimension"></a>**
Let $A$ be a UHF algegra and $d$ the dimension map on $A.$ The following properties hold.
1. For all $p\in P(A),$ $d(p)\in [0, \infty)$ where $d(p) = 0\iff p = 0.$
2. For all $p_1, p_2\in P(A),$ we have $p_1\sim p_2\iff d(p_1) = d(p_2)$ and $p_1\preccurlyeq p_2\iff d(p_1)\le d(p_2).$
3. For all $p\in P(A),$ $p = 1\iff d(p) = 1.$
4. Let $A_i,$ $i\in I$ be a family of $C^\star$-sub-algebras whose union is dense in $A.$ Let $P = P(A)$ and $P_i = P\cap A_i.$ Then
$$    d(P) = \bigcup_{i\in I} d(P_i).$$

**Proof.**
Consider the following.
1. By definition of trace (Definition <a href="#trace definition">trace definition</a>) and a consequence of dimension map being faithful (Theorem <a href="#unique trace theorem">unique trace theorem</a>).
2. The $\implies$ side of both statements is obvious. By Theorem <a href="#equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 2">equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 2</a>, there exist a $C^\star$-sub-algebra $B\cong M_r(\mathbb{C})$ of $A,$ both sharing the same unit, for some $r$ such that $B$ is arbitrarily close to both $p_1$ and $p_2.$ Therefore, by Lemma <a href="#closeness lemma">closeness lemma</a>, there exist projections $q_1, q_2\in P(B)$ such that $||p_i - q_i|| < 1\implies p_i\sim q_i$ (Lemma <a href="#closeness implies sim">closeness implies sim</a>). Suppose $d(p_1) = d(p_2).$ Then, $d(q_1) = d(p_1) = d(p_2) = d(q_2).$ Because $d$ restricted to $B$ is a trace on a matrix algebra, we have $\dim\range q_1 = \dim\range q_2,$ so $p_1\sim q_1\sim q_2\sim p_2.$ Suppose $d(p_1)\le d(p_2).$ Then, $d(q_1)\le d(q_2).$ It follows that $\dim\range q_1\le \dim\range q_2,$ so $p_1\sim q_1\preccurlyeq q_2\sim p_2.$
3. Again, the $\implies$ direction is trivial. Theorem <a href="#unique trace theorem">unique trace theorem</a> and Proposition <a href="#faithful trace means finite">faithful trace means finite</a> implies $A$ is finite. Let $p\in P(A)$ be such that $d(p) = 1.$ As in 2., there is a $C^\star$-sub-algebra $B\cong M_r(\mathbb{C})$ of $A,$ both sharing the same unit, for some $r$ such that there is some $q\in P(B)$ where $p\sim q.$ Then, $d(q) = 1$ so $p\sim q\sim 1$ which forces $p = 1$ by finiteness of $A.$
4. As in 2., given any $p\in P(A),$ there is some $q\in P(A_i)$ such that $p\sim q$ and thus $d(p) = d(q).$ ∎

**Theorem.**
Let $A$ and $A'$ be UHF algebras. Take $P = P(A)$ and $P' = P(A').$ Let $d, d'$ be the dimension maps on $A$ and $A'$ respectively. If $d(P) = d'(P'),$ then $A\cong A'.$

Before we prove this theorem, let's take a look at what the $d(P)$ looks like and see if we can associate to it a **number**.

### Supernatural Numbers

**Definition.**
Let $p_1, p_2, ...$ be the sequence of all primes. A **supernatural number** $n$ is the infinite prime factorization
$$    n = \prod_{i = 1}^\infty p_i^{e_i}$$
where each $e_i\in \mathbb{Z}_{\ge 0}\cup \{\infty\}.$ By convention, $n = 0$ if each prime power is $\infty.$ Divisibility naturally extends to supernatural numbers.

**Definition.**
Let $n$ be a supernatural number. Denote $\frac{1}{n}\mathbb{Z}$ to be the subgroup of $\mathbb{Q}$ where
$$    \frac{1}{n}\mathbb{Z} = \left\{\frac{p}{q}\in \mathbb{Q}\ \middle|\ p, q\neq 0\in \mathbb{Z}\text{ and }q | n\right\}.$$

**Proposition. <a id="bijection between subgroups of Q and supernatural numbers"></a>**
There is a bijection between subgroups of $\mathbb{Q}$ containing $1$ and subgroups of $\mathbb{Q}$ described by $\frac{1}{n}\mathbb{Z}$ for a supernatural number $n.$

**Proof.**
Let $G$ be a subgroup of $\mathbb{Q}$ containing $1.$ Let $D = \{y\in \mathbb{Z}\ |\ \frac{x}{y}\in G\text{ and }\gcd(x, y) = 1\}.$ We can associate to $G$ a supernatural number
$$    n = \prod_{i = 1}^\infty p_i^{e_i}$$
where $e_i = \sup\{e_i'\in \mathbb{Z}\ |\ \exists d\in D.\ p_i^{e_i'} | d\}.$ We claim that $G = \frac{1}{n}\mathbb{Z}.$ By construction, we have $G\subseteq \frac{1}{n}\mathbb{Z}.$ To prove $\frac{1}{n}\mathbb{Z}\subseteq G,$ it suffices to show that given any $q\neq 0\in \mathbb{Z}$ where $q | n,$ $\frac{1}{q}\in G.$ First, we claim that given any $\frac{x}{y}\in G$ where $\gcd(x, y) = 1,$ $\frac{1}{y}\in G.$ Indeed, since $\gcd(x, y) = 1,$ there exist integers $a, b$ such that $ax + by = 1;$ and since $\frac{y}{y}\in G,$ we have $\frac{1}{y}\in G.$ Let's prime factorize $q:$
$$    q = \prod_{i = 1}^\infty p_i^{f_i}$$
where all but finitely many $f_i$ are $0.$ We know from our claim and by construction that for all $f_i\neq 0,$ $\frac{1}{p_i^{f_i}}\in G.$ If $f_i\neq 0, f_j\neq 0,$ then $\frac{1}{p_i^{f_i}} + \frac{1}{p_j^{f_j}} = \frac{p_i^{f_i} + p_j^{f_j}}{p_i^{f_i}p_j^{f_j}}\in G;$ since $\gcd(p_i^{f_i} + p_j^{f_j}, p_i^{f_i}p_j^{f_j}) = 1,$ it follows that $\frac{1}{p_i^{f_i}p_j^{f_j}}\in G.$ By induction, we can deduce that $\frac{1}{q}\in G.$ Hence, $G = \frac{1}{n}\mathbb{Z}.$ It's easy to see that $\frac{1}{n}\mathbb{Z}$ is a subgroup of $\mathbb{Q}$ containing $1,$ so we are done. ∎

### Dimension Group of an UHF Algebra

The proof of the following lemma shows explicitly how to construct $d(P).$

**Lemma. <a id="bruh"></a>**
Let $A$ be an UHF algebra, $d$ the dimension map on $A.$ Let $P = P(A).$ Then $d(P)\subseteq \mathbb{Q}.$

**Proof.**
There exist positive integers $q_1, q_2, ...$ and an increasing sequence of $C^\star$-sub-algebras $A_1, A_2, ...,$ each $A_i\cong M_{q_i}(\mathbb{C})$ and sharing the unit with $A,$ such that
$$    A = \overline{\bigcup_{i = 1}^\infty A_i}.$$
Let $P_i = P(A_i).$ Proposition <a href="#properties of dimension">properties of dimension</a> tells us that
$$    d(P) = \bigcup_{i = 1}^\infty d(P_i).$$
It's easy to see that $d(P_i) = \{\frac{0}{q_i}, \frac{1}{q_i}, ..., \frac{q_i}{q_i}\}.$ Therefore, $d(P)\subseteq \mathbb{Q}.$ ∎

**Definition (Dimension group).**
Let $A$ be a UHF algebra, $d$ the dimension map on $A.$ Let $\Delta$ be the subgroup of $\mathbb{Q}$ generated by $d(P)$ where $P = P(A).$ Call $\Delta$ the **dimension group** of $A.$ Call a subgroup of $\mathbb{Q}$ a dimension group if there exists an UHF algebra that produces it.

**Theorem.**
There is a bijection between dimension groups and supernatural numbers.

**Proof.**
Let $\Delta$ be a dimension group. Since $1\in \Delta,$ we know from Proposition <a href="#bijection between subgroups of Q and supernatural numbers">bijection between subgroups of Q and supernatural numbers</a> that there is a supernatural number $n$ such that $\Delta = \frac{1}{n}\mathbb{Z}.$ Different dimension groups produce different supernatural numbers.
Now let $n$ be any supernatural number. Then, fix any sequence $f_1, f_2, ...$ of prime numbers such that
$$n = \prod_{i = 1}^n f_i.$$
Let 
$$(A, \{\mu_i\}_{i = 1}^\infty)$$
be the UHF algebra generated by the inductive sequence
https://q.uiver.app/?q=WzAsNCxbMiwwLCJcXGJpZ290aW1lc197ayA9IDF9Xm4gTV97Zl9rfShcXG1hdGhiYntDfSkiXSxbNCwwLCJcXGJpZ290aW1lc197ayA9IDF9XntuICsgMX0gTV97Zl9rfShcXG1hdGhiYntDfSkiXSxbNiwwLCJcXGNkb3RzIl0sWzAsMCwiXFxjZG90cyJdLFswLDEsIlxcdmFycGhpX24iXSxbMSwyLCJcXHZhcnBoaV97biArIDF9Il0sWzMsMF1d
where $\varphi_n$ is the injective unit-preserving map taking 
$$x\mapsto x\otimes 1_{f_{n + 1}}.$$ 
By Exercise 6.7 in [rørdam_larsen_laustsen_2010](#ref-rørdam_larsen_laustsen_2010), each $\mu_i$ is injective and unit-preserving, so
$$A = \overline{\bigcup_{i = 1}^\infty A_i}$$
where $A_1, A_2, ...$ is an increasing sequence of $C^\star$-sub-algebras of $A,$ sharing the unit with $A,$ where $A_n\cong M_{\prod_{i = 1}^n f_i}(\mathbb{C}).$ It follows that
$$d(P) = \bigcup_{n = 1}^\infty \left\{0, \frac{1}{\prod_{i = 1}^n f_i}, ..., \frac{\prod_{i = 1}^n f_i}{\prod_{i = 1}^n f_i}\right\},$$
where $P = P(A).$ It's not hard to see from here that $\frac{1}{n}\mathbb{Z} = \Delta,$ where $\Delta$ is the dimension group of $A.$ ∎

**Remark (Construction of $n$ given $A$). <a id="algorithm"></a>**
Note that $q_i | q_{i + 1}$ by Proposition <a href="#n|n'">n|n'</a> in the proof of Lemma <a href="#bruh">bruh</a>. Thus, $d(P) = \Delta\cap [0, 1].$ It follows from the proof of Proposition <a href="#bijection between subgroups of Q and supernatural numbers">bijection between subgroups of Q and supernatural numbers</a> that given $A,$ we can construct $n$ via the following algorithm: take $e_i$ to be the biggest exponent such that $p_i^{e_i}$ divides into some $q_i$ and assemble
$$    n = \prod_{i = 1}^\infty p_i^{e_i}.$$

### UHF Algebra Isomorphism Theorem

**Definition (Dimension).**
Let the supernatural number $n$ associated to each UHF algebra $A$ be its **dimension**.

**Theorem (UHF Algebra Isomorphism Theorem). <a id="isomorphism theorem"></a>**
Let $A$ and $A'$ be two UHF algebras. Let $n$ and $n'$ be the dimensions of $A$ and $A'$ respectively. Then
$$    A\cong A'\iff n = n'.$$

**Remark.**
The author admits that this proof really took the scenic route.

**Proof.**
Suppose $A\cong A'$ and take $\varphi: A\rightarrow A'$ to be an isomorphism. If $d$ is the dimension map on $A,$ $d\circ \varphi$ is the dimension map on $A'$ by uniqueness of dimension maps (Theorem <a href="#unique trace theorem">unique trace theorem</a>). Let $P = P(A)$ and $P' = P(A').$ Because $P' = \varphi(P),$ $A$ and $A'$ generate the same dimension group and hence $n = n'.$
Now suppose $n = n'.$ Let's follow the algorithm laid out in Remark <a href="#algorithm">algorithm</a>. By Proposition <a href="#n|n'">n|n'</a>, Theorem <a href="#equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 1">equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 1</a>, and Theorem <a href="#equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 2">equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 2</a>, there exist two sequences of positive integers $f_1, f_2, ...$ and $f_1', f_2', ...$ such that
1.  We have
    $$
        n = n' = \prod_{i = 1}^\infty f_i = \prod_{i = 1}^\infty f_i'.
    $$
2.  There exist increasing sequences of $C^\star$-sub-algebras $A_n\cong M_{\prod_{i = 1}^n f_k}(\mathbb{C})$ and $A_n'\cong M_{\prod_{i = 1}^n f_k'}(\mathbb{C})$ of $A$ and $A'$ respectively such that $A$ and $A'$ arise as the inductive limits of these sequences where the connecting maps are inclusion maps.

Because $n = n',$ we can find subsequences $A_{n_1}, A_{n_2}, ...$ and $A'_{m_1}, A'_{m_2}, ...$ such that
$$    \prod_{i = 1}^{n_k} f_i | \prod_{i = 1}^{m_k} f_i';\ \prod_{i = 1}^{m_k} f_i' | \prod_{i = 1}^{n_{k + 1}} f_i (*).$$
Note by Exercise 6.7 in [rørdam_larsen_laustsen_2010](#ref-rørdam_larsen_laustsen_2010), $A$ and $A'$ are the inductive limits of $A_{n_i}$ and $A_{n_i'}$ respectively. Like in the proof of Theorem <a href="#unique trace theorem">unique trace theorem</a>, we can find isomorphisms $\pi_k: A_{n_k}\rightarrow \bigotimes_{i = 1}^{n_k} M_{f_i}(\mathbb{C})$ and $\pi_k': A_{m_k}'\rightarrow \bigotimes_{i = 1}^{m_k} M_{f_i'}(\mathbb{C})$ making the following diagrams commute
https://q.uiver.app/?q=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
https://q.uiver.app/?q=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
Where $\varphi_k: \bigotimes_{i = 1}^{n_k} M_{f_i}(\mathbb{C})\rightarrow \bigotimes_{i = 1}^{n_{k + 1}} M_{f_i}(\mathbb{C})$ is the injective, unit-preserving morphism taking $x\mapsto x\otimes 1.$ Elliott's intertwining argument tells us $A$ and $A'$ are the inductive sequences of the respective matrix tensor products. Because of (*), we can find intertwining maps (defined in the same fashion as $\varphi$'s) that make the diagram
https://q.uiver.app/?q=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
commute. Elliott's intertwining argument gives us that $A\cong A'.$ We are done. ∎

**Theorem.**
Let $A$ and $A'$ be two UHF algebras. Let $n$ and $n'$ be the dimension of $A$ and $A'$ respectively. $A$ is a $C^\star$-sub-algebra of $A'$ if and only if $n | n'.$

**Proof.**
We use the same idea in Theorem <a href="#isomorphism theorem">isomorphism theorem</a>, but with the additional step of using Theorem <a href="#isomorphism theorem">isomorphism theorem</a> to justify the $\impliedby$ direction. ∎

## Appendix

We include here some miscellaneous results.

### Simplicity

**Lemma. <a id="M_n is simple"></a>**
$A = M_n(\mathbb{C})$ is simple.

**Proof.**
Let $I$ be a closed two-sided ideal of $A.$ Suppose $I\neq 0.$ Then, there exist $x\in I$ where the rank of $x$ is nonzero. We have the following.
1. Because $IA\subseteq I$ and $AI\subseteq I,$ the matrix obtained by applying any series of elementary matrix operations to $x$ is in $I.$ Thus, $y\in I$ where $y$ is the identity matrix with the last $0\le k < n$ diagonal entries removed.
2. Similarly, we can populate the $0$ diagonal entries with $1$ by copying one of the existing $1$ diagonal entries to get $1\in I.$
Since $1\in I,$ $I = A.$ It follows that $A$ is simple. ∎

**Proposition (Theorem 1.4 in [dixmier_1967](#ref-dixmier_1967)). <a id="UHF is simple"></a>**
Let $A$ be a UHF algebra. Then $A$ is simple and algebraically simple.

**Proof.**
First, we show $A$ is simple. Theorem <a href="#equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 2">equivalence of UHF algebra definitons 2</a> tells us that there exist a sequence $q_1, q_2, ...$ of positive integers and an increasing sequence $A_1, A_2, ...$ of $C^\star$-sub-algebras of $A,$ sharing the same unit with $A,$ where $A_i\cong M_{q_i}(\mathbb{C})$ and $A = \overline{\bigcup_{i = 1}^\infty A_i}.$ Let $I$ be a closed two-sided ideal of $A$ where $I\neq 0$ and $I\neq A.$ By Lemma <a href="#M_n is simple">M_n is simple</a>, we know that $I\cap A_i = 0$ for all $i.$ Note that should $I = A_i,$ this would either mean $A_{i + k}$ is not simple for some $k > 0,$ or that $I = A.$ This means $A - I$ is dense in $A.$ Let $\pi: A\rightarrow A/I$ be the quotient map; observe $\pi$ is injective on $A - I$ and hence an isometry on $A - I.$ By density, $\pi$ is an isometry on $A.$ This forces $I = 0,$ contradiction.
Now we show $A$ is algebraically simple. Let $I$ be the maximal ideal of $A.$ Then, $I$ contains no invertible elements. Since the set of invertible elements of $A$ is open, it follows that $\overline{I}$ too does not contain any invertible elements, so $\overline{I}\neq A.$ It's clear that $\overline{I}$ remains a two-sided ideal. Therefore, $I = \overline{I}$ by maximality. It follows that $I = 0$ because $A$ is simple (as a $C^\star$-algebra). ∎

### Traces

We present some results on traces in [dixmier_1977](#ref-dixmier_1977).

**Definition (Definition 6.1.1 in [dixmier_1977](#ref-dixmier_1977)).**
Let $A$ be a $C^\star$-algebra. A **trace on $A^+$** is a function $\tau: A^+\rightarrow [0, \infty]$ satisfying $\tau(\alpha x + \beta y) = \alpha \tau(x) + \beta \tau(y)$ for $x, y\in A^+,$ $\alpha, \beta\ge 0$ (where $0\cdot \infty = 0$) and $\tau(u^\star u) = \tau(uu^\star )$ for $u\in A.$ Call $\tau$ **finite** if $\tau < \infty,$ **semi-finite** if $\tau(x) = \sup\{\tau(y)\ |\ y\in A^+\text{, }y\le x\text{, and }\tau(y) < \infty\}$ for all $x\in A^+.$

**Remark.**
Note that $A^+$ is a closed convex cone (Proposition 1.6.1 in [dixmier_1977](#ref-dixmier_1977)).

**Definition. <a id="trace definition"></a>**
Let $A$ be a $C^\star$-algebra. A **trace on $A$** is a linear functional $\tau: A\rightarrow \mathbb{C}$ such that $\tau$ restricted to $A^+$ is a trace on $A^+$ and $\tau(xy) = \tau(yx).$

**Proposition. <a id="elements which generate positive kernel members form a two-sided ideal"></a>**
Let $A$ be a $C^\star$-algebra and $\tau: A\rightarrow \mathbb{C}$ be a trace on $A.$ Let $I = \{x\in A\ |\ x^\star x\in \ker\tau\}.$ Then, $I$ is a two-sided ideal of $A.$

**Proof.**
We use the proof from Proposition 4.5.1 in [dixmier_1977](#ref-dixmier_1977). First, we show $I$ is a vector space. Given $x\in I$ and $\lambda\in \mathbb{C},$ it's clear that $(\lambda x)^\star (\lambda x) = |\lambda|^2x^\star x\in A^+$ and $\tau((\lambda x)^\star (\lambda x)) = |\lambda|^2\tau(x^\star x) = 0,$ so $\lambda x\in I.$ Now consider any $x, y\in I.$ Note that
<div class="math-display">
$$
\begin{aligned}
2x^\star x + 2y^\star y - (x + y)^\star (x + y) &= x^\star x + y^\star y - x^\star y - y^\star x \\
&= (x - y)^\star (x - y) \\
&\ge 0; \\
2x^\star x + 2y^\star y&\ge (x - y)^\star (x - y).
\end{aligned}
$$
</div>
Thus, $\tau((x - y)^\star (x - y)) = 0$ and so $x + y\in I.$ Since $\tau(x^\star x) = \tau(xx^\star ),$ it remains to show that $AI\subseteq I.$ Let $x\in I,$ $y\in A$ be arbitrary. Observe that
<div class="math-display">
$$
\begin{aligned}
    ||y^\star y||x^\star x - (yx)^\star (yx) &= x^\star (||y^\star y||\cdot 1 - y^\star y)x \\
    &\ge 0
\end{aligned}
$$
</div>
because $||y^\star y||\cdot 1 - y^\star y\ge 0$ so $||y^\star y||\cdot 1 - y^\star y = z^\star z$ and $x^\star z^\star zx = (zx)^\star (zx)\ge 0.$ Note that we adjoin a unit if necessary. Because $\tau(||y^\star y||x^\star x) = ||y^\star y||\cdot 0 = 0,$ we get that $yx\in I.$ $I$ is a two-sided ideal of $A$ as required. ∎

**Corollary. <a id="non-zero trace of simple is faithful"></a>**
Every non-zero trace of a simple $C^\star$-algebra is faithful.

**Proposition. <a id="faithful trace means finite"></a>**
If a $C^\star$-algebra $A$ has a faithful trace $\tau$ on $A^+,$ $A$ is finite.

**Proof.**
Let $\tau$ be a faithful trace on $A^+.$ Suppose $p\in P(A)$ such that $1\sim p.$ Then,
<div class="math-display">
$$
\begin{aligned}
    \tau(1) &= \tau(p) \\
    \tau(1 - p) &= 0 \\
    1 - p &= 0.
\end{aligned}
$$
</div>
$A$ is thus finite. ∎

## References

* <a id="ref-dixmier_1967"></a>Dixmier, J. (1967). On some C*-algebras considered by Glimm. *Journal of Functional Analysis*, *1*(2), 182–203.
* <a id="ref-dixmier_1977"></a>Dixmier, J. (1977). *C*-algebras*. North-Holland.
* <a id="ref-glimm_1960"></a>Glimm, J. G. (1960). On a certain class of operator algebras. *Transactions of the American Mathematical Society*, *95*(2), 318–340.
* <a id="ref-rørdam_larsen_laustsen_2010"></a>Rørdam, M., Larsen, F., & Laustsen, N. (2010). *An introduction to K-theory for $C^\star$-algebras*. Cambridge University Press.
